# GoCore

A Golang solution for building a full stack web application.

## Goals of the Project ##

Provide developers open source Golang tools and provide a complete project example/template for learning and implementing Golang technology.  Below are some targeted goals:

* Http & Https Redirection & HTTP 2.0 with Golang 1.6
* Extension packages for common functions including:
	* File IO Management & Manipulation
	* Zip File Compression & Decompression 

----------

* Database extensions and drivers for the following:
	* Supported databases:
		* SQLite3
		* MySQL
		* Microsoft SQLServer
	* Create SQL Schema (DDL) from JSON Configuration.
	* Create Golang ORM packages for RDBMS Transactions & Queries.

----------

* Built in JS Web Frameworks & CSS:
	* Angular 2.0
	* Bootstrap v4.0.0-alpha.2
	* Font-Awesome 4.5
	* Jquery 2.2.2
	* Jquery-ui 1.11.4
	* Jquery-mobile-1.4.5
	

----------

* Future Database Support:
	* Posgres
	* NOSQL (MongoDB, CouchDB, Redis, ...?)
	* 

----------
## Getting Started ##

### Install Golang 1.6 and setup your GOPATH ###
[Windows Golang Setup](http://www.wadewegner.com/2014/12/easy-go-programming-setup-for-windows/ "Windows Golang Setup")

[Linux & MAC Setup](https://golang.org/doc/install/ "Linux & MAC Setup")

### Get the Project
To start a new project with GoCore download the master zip file.

`https://github.com/DanielRenne/GoCore/archive/master.zip`

Set your GOPATH to GoCore-master directory from the zip file or to your renamed directory.

As GoCore evolves and matures you can download new updates to your public or private project by running:

`go run getCore.go`

`getCore.go` is the process to update with the latest or specific GoCore version.

By default getCore.go will pull down the latest master repository.  However, you can pass in the release version number to pull down a specific release.  If a specific release is not available then master will always default.

`go run getCore.go 1.0.0`

### Run the included sample project

GoCore comes with a sample helloWorld project to manipulate to learn.  To run the web server for helloWorld run the following:

`go run server.go`

Open a web browser to:  [http://127.0.0.1/web/helloWorld](http://127.0.0.1/web/helloWorld)

#### How to build your own web project in GoCore

GoCore has a main web configuration file called `webConfig.json` located in the main directory.

There you will see an application object.  The domain, httpPort, and httpsPort is used for your application to run on.  The name field is used to match database connections and generate Database files, schema, and a Golang ORM package.

GoCore has a 2nd file to compile the proper application located at:

`\src\core\app\app.go`

This file is where you point your custom project files to launch.  The sample project launches helloWorld.  You will want to change this to your src files in the manner you see fit. 

NOTE:  Both webConfig.json and app.go files are ignored when running `getCore.go` as to not overwrite your configurations.

## IMPORTANT NOTE for HTTPS (TLS) Security
GoCore comes default with an open ssl generated Cert and PEM files that are **NOT** secret as they are available via the open source repository.  Make sure you replace both these files located in the `keys` directory.  To do this we recommend in Linux running the following command and copying the output files to the `keys` directory.  Alternatively cert and pem files generated by a valid Certificate Authority like GoDaddy or Verisign when you reach production with an online domain.

`openssl req -x509 -nodes -days 365 -newkey rsa:2048 -keyout key.pem -out cert.pem`

NOTE:  We also recommend **NOT** to store your secret key files in source control.  We recommend ignoring the keys directory for source control.

NOTE:  key files are ingored when running `getCore.go` as to not overwrite your keys.

Additional Info on Golang https:  [https://www.kaihag.com/https-and-go/](https://www.kaihag.com/https-and-go/ "HTTPS&GO")

###Create the helloWorld SQLite3 DB Tables

####NOTE: Windows users we recommend installing gcc as a prerequisite for the sqlite3 golang module to compile via [tdb-gcc](http://tdm-gcc.tdragon.net/download).  Be sure to install 64 bit for 64 bit machines. 

####More SQLite tools to verify your data in Windows [SQLite Studio](http://sqlitestudio.pl/)

To create a SQLite3 DB GoCore has built in functions to read json configuration files to generate SQL Tables, indexes, primary & foreign keys, and the Golang ORM package.

GoCore uses a file called `buildDB.go` by running the following:

`go run buildDB.go`  

This routine will read the webConfig.json file and read the db\\helloWorld\create.json file to create the SQLite3 Database files and Tables. The routine will then add Golang ORM package files to src\\helloWorld\orm and src\\helloWorld\model.

To use the ORM package you will import into your source files the following:

	import( 
		"helloWorld/orm"
		"helloWorld/model"
	)

